The dean of students.
Did you hire Austin Curley? Yeah, worked very
close with Austin Curley when he was in the basic
division. And did basic division report to you?
No, it reported to, I believe, the restaurant
office or somebody in the academic structure.
They were in the Aggieland Inn when I would work
with them because they helped us with a lot of
students. We're talking about major decisions
while ago. As you think back, can you think of any
decisions which, now that we have clear
hindsight, should have been decided the other
way? I don't have any specific one to ask you about.
No, I think this thing we read about yesterday
about the manners in the dining hall in Duncan
means a lot because a freshman doesn't have the
same privilege to eat as a sophomore in the dining
hall that I have observed. I've only been there a
few times, Sul Ross Day, my class has a Sul Ross
student and a PES student, and you can just see a
little of it. And if they can do what the battalion
said they were planning to do, I think that's a big
step. And I think the President Commandant we have
is as good a person for the job as I've seen since
I've been here. I agree with you. Let's see, do you
have any Rudder stories you can share, present
Rudder? One while ago was a good example. No.
That's the best story I can tell, and he said, you
and I will be on the same side. I wish you were still
back at the dining hall. Were you aware of his
health declining not long before his death? I was
not. Were you aware that he was in fragile health?
Well, in a way, I could see a change in his health.
activities and everything. He was a pretty heavy
person to start with. I
was shocked when I heard that he had died. It was a
shock. One month before his 60th birthday. It cost
him his teacher's retirement, didn't it? Well,
see, they've revised it now, but he didn't qualify
for veterans anything, nor did Mrs. Rutter. And
Tiger Teague couldn't get an exception made for
him. All right, then, did you have any work with
Jack Williams? Yes. Well, the best story I can tell
on Jack Williams was the first day he was in his
office. You might have heard the People at the
power plant were blowing the whistle at 8, 12, 1,
and 5. Have you heard that story? Go ahead. And they
blew it at 8 o'clock, and he called his secretary
and said, what's that whistle blowing me? He got a
fire somewhere? He said, no, that's the power
plant. Be at work at 8, lunch at 12, back to work at 1,
and 5, go home. He said, call the superintendent of
the power plant and give him this message from me,
that this is an educational institution and not a
factory. And he just cut the cord on the whistle
from now on. That's where you heard it? That's
pretty close to what I heard. Well, that's the way I
heard it. Did you have any other interactions with
him? Oh, no, other than just here and there. He was a
good person and a good administrator, and I think
he went to medical school in Houston when he left
here, didn't he? Yes, sir. That's right. Yes, sir.
You might let her add her two cents worth. We had
these houses on the campus, and Blue Courts was the
only place in College Station where you could get a
room. They were only close to East Gate, close to
where that service station is now. And we knew a lot
of students, and for the various reasons, and some
disciplinary and some social. And there wasn't
many weekends during the spring football
weekends that she didn't take care of. Well,
Wendy, the way this came up, the boys would walk
through. See, we had a long driveway that went
around to our backyard. Well, the students would
just walk through our yard. Well, then we didn't
care. Well, our house is at 414 Throckmorton. It's
about close to where the... east corner of the
parking garage is now and people walk through all
the time. And we got to know a lot of those kids.
They'd play with Bill and Peggy Jane. They were
little tiny kids and they'd play with the kids and
talk and we got to know them pretty good and they
said after we got to know them pretty good They
said, do you ever let... You want to start all over?
No, no, we'll catch it. We'll catch it. Said, do you
ever think about letting... Would you consider
letting our girlfriends, when they come, stay at
our house? Well, of course, I'm young, and I don't
think about all of this and a beach. It didn't
bother me at all. And, Lord, in mercy, we got to
where we'd, nearly every weekend, for the ball
game, we had one or two boys that had their
girlfriends
And did you ever charge them? Never a penny. It was
always free? Not one penny. We just enjoyed it and
never did even think about charging them. Did you
ever have any problems? Never, never. They were
always nice and pleasant? Uh-uh, never, never.
And they never did abuse anything. Tell them if
they wanted to get something, you know, a cold
drink or something like that, the icebox would be,
well, I mean, they'd be welcome to go there. And
they would. Sometimes they'd come in at night and
come on to the kitchen and... get something to
drink out of the refrigerator, and they'd talk and
laugh and have a good time. But we enjoyed them
because they enjoyed the kids. And it was a lot of
fun. It was just good. All right. And your kids,
where did they play when they were little? They
played all over the yard, and that's what made it
nice. These fellows would walk through, and
they'd talk with them and play with them. Guy and
all was a big stop in their life. to go to movies.
He'd be working basketball games or something
like that and I could walk out of the backyard and
right across, you know, we were so close. And there
were some other faculty staff kids also in that
same group of houses. Yeah, Joe Davis, Colonel
Davis, do you remember him? Joe and Marie Davis
lived on the corner. And Dr. R.D. Lewis, they
didn't have any small children. And then on the
other side of us, here was our house, here was
Davis, and here was... D.W. Williams. And then
D.W. Williams was on this side. Henderson
Shuffler was in the next. Henderson Shuffler was
in the two-story, then the Harringtons, you know,
the big pretty house where Malin lives now. But
Madge Williams was my mentor. I tell you, when we
moved there, she knew all about the campus and all
the people and everything. And she advised me on so
many things there. I was just a little young woman
with these two little tiny kids. And she just took
me under her wing and told me what to do and what not
to do and everything. It was just heaven on earth.
It really was. I remember on the A&M Council, Jack,
what is it, Jack Woods? Oh yeah, Jack Woods. Jack
Woods that had his dates. in our home on a few
occasions. It's on the council now. And he always
wants to know if she's coming to the council
meeting. But it was fun. Do you remember when the
students marched on Dr. Gilchrist's house? I was
sitting on the edge of the porch on the west end.
Describe that, that whole event. Well, I heard it
was going to happen and I knew I couldn't do
anything to stop it. Wasn't anybody can stop it. So
I was there. What were they disturbed about? They
just wanted to make some of their own rules. But
wasn't hazing one of the... I think hazing was one
of the things that they were concerned about, and
there might have been a number of other
conditions, so they got together and agreed that
everybody was going to turn in their promotion
brass from
one button to cadet term. And so I got a little, and I
think I notified somebody else that it was going to
happen. Anyway, I was sitting on the edge of the
porch, and they come in, somebody knocked on the
door, and Mr. Gilchrist came out, and so they told
him that they were not satisfied with the way
things are being run in the cadet corps, and maybe
they needed different commissioned officers.
And here's all of our cadet brass in this helmet
line. And he said, will you accept it? He said, I'll
accept it with regrets. But if that's the way you
feel, we're going to run the school. And they had a
big old lieutenant colonel that was assistant
commandant named McLehaney, if I remember the
name right. And he and his committee interviewed
every one of them over a period of several weeks to
see who they were going to put back. And in about
three weeks, they had it rolling again. But I
accept your resignation with regret.
When it was all over, they knew who was still in
charge, didn't they? That's right. That's right.
McLehaney got that over to a lot of them during this
interview of whether or not you want your job back
or some other job. They made some promotions that
they were good. Was Dr. Gilchrist ever, during
that, criticized? by the fact that he was a
University of Texas graduate? Not that I knew of. I
think when he said, accept this with regret, I
think it gained him a lot of momentum. Well, and his
wife, Vesta Gilchrist, was such a – did you ever
know her? No, ma'am. Well, she was a lady, and she
was so loved. Well, let me tell – you can tell it – a
story about Madge Williams and Peggy and the
premium rose that she broke. Well, you want to tell
it here? Yes, sure. D.W. and Madge Williams lived
next door to us. A great member of the fire club or
whatever. I'm young, and she just taught me so much
and what to expect and blah, blah, blah. Well,
Madge had this beautiful rose garden out in the
back of her place, and the roses were huge. One
certain one that she was saving for a show. She was
watching for her garden club group. And one day
Peggy Jane, our little girl, about five or six
years old, came running in and says, Mama, look,
look, look, look. And the minute I saw it, see, I
knew it was Madge's rose. Oh, I liked it. Died. And I
took her hand and took her over there. And I didn't
know what Madge was going to say. You know, I just
didn't know. I knew she was going to be
heartbroken. And she just got in on the ground and
hugged Peggy Jane and told me not to worry. And
remember, her kids were grown and that she had gone
through the same thing. One of them's a doctor. The
boy's son's a doctor. I think that's right.
Anyhow, that was the end of that. But I never, I
guess that's where... And she told you not to
reprimand her anymore? Yeah, I said, don't you go
home and spank her. She said, I had, my little ones
are grown and I know what you, how you feel. But I
never will forget that. But she was the dearest
lady that ever lived. And Eleanor and Henderson
Shuffler in the two-story house. Did you ever know
them? Only after he got to San Antonio. Well, they
were lovely people. They were just lovely.
Because I know that the Institute of Texan
Cultures, as we now call it, that was his idea. that
he was dreaming of doing it here, but he couldn't
get it done. But over there he was. And you know
they're both dead now? Yes, ma'am. Yes, ma'am. And
R.D. Lewis is on the other side of us, and they were
lovely people. They were older people, but they
were very nice. They had a little apartment in
their backyard about a half the size of this room, a
random ass, and Darryl Hooper lived in it during
his track days. Darryl? Yeah, Darryl Hooper. And I
was the secretary, as I mentioned the other day, of
that Aspirations Committee. Yes. And Dr. Lewis
was one of the key members of that committee. Oh
really? Oh, he was really good. He had good A&M
experience, but he also had experience
elsewhere. Right. So that he could give us a broad
perspective. And because of his work with the
Experiment Station, people would listen to it.
Let me throw in on this an anecdote about that march
on the President's House. I collect picture
postcards from towns where we've lived. And up in
Missouri, I found a card from College Station and a
picture of Guyon Hall. And I looked at it and it was
postmarked at that time Here's what it said and is
written to a lady in Mount Pleasant, Texas dear
mother Made it back home. Okay The ice and snow
ended about Tyler. We drove slow all the way to
Palestine We're back here. I think it's going to be
okay We marched on the president's house last
night, buddy. That was his roommate. I learned
later and buddy we thought was going to be a big
trouble but i think maybe we'll both be able to stay
in school and he signed his last name all right i
then thought hmm i remember a friend in the
presbyterian church in el paso from mount
pleasant with that first name so we were visiting
it back in el paso about three months later They got
to church before we did that morning. I had the
usher pass a note to him saying, I'll meet you out in
the vestibule. Afterward, I got something for
you. And so I looked back and he got the note and he
said, you know, see you. And so I woke up to him and I
said, let me read you a postcard. And I said, did
your mother ever live at such and such an address?
Well, yeah. And I said, let me read you a postcard.
And I read it to him and he said, where'd you get
that? And he said that when they participated in
the march, they both thought they were going to be
kicked out of school. Because he said, we were
scared that
President Gilchrist, we knew he was in charge, and
we were scared that he was going to kick us all out.
And he was the parent of the boy that wrote the card.
He's the one who wrote it. And so I gave him the card.
I said, here, you've got... And he said, oh, what a
keepsake, what a keepsake. Now, as you lived on—
You ought to give him a Xerox of it and put that in the
archives. Now, as you all lived on the campus, your
children's closest playmates were there in the
neighborhood. Right there. What did you call
that? You didn't call that faculty housing. What
did you call that little neighborhood? Well, we
just didn't call it anything. Well, we lived in two
different houses. The first house they moved us
out of is about where Mr. Rudder's monument is now
in the mold of the Bible. Oh, that would have been
worth telling that. We were just there about a
mile. Because there was houses all the way around
that block. So when they started moving those out,
they gave us one over in 414 Throckmorton, which
pretty close to this military bonfire. Well, it
was wonderful. Four bedrooms, two full baths, a
great big screen porch, and that's why we had a
separate dining room, you know, living room,
dining room, and all that, and a great big old back
porch that was . . . About this high off the floor. An
old-fashioned house. Cold in the winter and hot in
the summer. Now, what did it, do you remember what
the rent was? Nineteen dollars a month, and all
utilities paid, but no air conditioning. Let's
see, and did they mow the grass? Well, kids can't
fit trunks down. Oh, okay. No, we, don't you know,
Bill had to mow, our son was old enough, he got to
where he had to mow, and you mowed some. But no, they
didn't take care of the yard, but everything was
lovely. It was just great living there. We've got
about 15 more minutes. That's what Dr. Ed
Williams, who was my department head, told old
Rollins when he told him where he was. He said they
gave him a campus on the house, $19 and $300 a month.
And I stayed with him 24 years and then moved to the
mail room, and I'm not sorry yet because it was a
good time. operational type of thing,
management. Well he's got some things he wants to
ask you about. No, no. And the faculty mail manager
now worked as me as a student mail sorter. Oh, how
good. Four years as a business major and Daddy had
the Pearl beer distributorship in this county.
Johnny, anyway, what his last name was. He went to
work for his dad when they got out of school. And
somebody bought the distributorship. And he
called me one day and said, I need to talk to you. So
he come in and spent about three hours one
afternoon. He said, now that's my problem. I don't
have a job and don't know where to go. And I said, you
did a good job sorting mail. You knew the
departments. You didn't ride a truck. You didn't
know where all of them were. But you knew those
cages as well as anybody. And you have a degree in
business management. And if you like the mail, you
go down there and tell them you want a part-time job
by the hour, any time of the day, any time of the
week, a day or night. get your foot in the door, and
first time a vacancy comes up for the manager of the
mail service, you'll have not only a foot in the
door, you'll have your head in, too. And in two
years, after going through the route of the
different areas and learning that. He's got the
job, doing a good job, and his class is big now as it
was then. And we kept postage against his
apartments and a notebook. And now, if history has
a stack of letters that wants to run through the
meter, they take the meter reading, put it in a
computer, and take it when it comes out and the
bills will come out automatically at the end of the
month. It took a full-time person to keep books on
it and get our money back. What have we left out that
we should have included? Are there some topics
that you remember that we should have included?
Well, I'll have to think right quick. Well, if we,
when we give you back the first draft, feel free to
add, subtract, edit, I've got three more
questions I want to ask,
and these can get serious. As you look back on it,
what difference did it make in your life that you
went to Texas A&M? Well, I know how much it's meant
to me, but
farming or ranching or being a carpenter. I don't
know. I couldn't compare it because I was well
prepared both athletically and occupational
wise and I wouldn't take anything from a five years
of coaching experience and Class A basketball.
And I just couldn't compare it with anything else
except what I see somebody else doing. But my
commission, as I mentioned in some other article,
my commission and my association with athletics
has made it a very good life for both of us. Alright,
let's make believe somebody gives you a check for a
million dollars, and there's only one
requirement. You've got to pass it on to Texas A&M,
but you get to decide what's going to be done with
it. What would you tell A&M to do with that gift?
Well, if it was, no, it would be a restricted gift.
Oh, but you decide what the restrictions are.
Yeah, that's what I'm saying. The only way that it
goes to scholarships for underprivileged high
school people, because we have a lot of high school
people that don't go to college, that don't have
the funds. Just that one place. And that's what the
half that A&M gets out of our trust. Ms. Lusk says,
we want half of it and we'll take care of the whole
thing. I tried two or three banks and nobody could
help me. She said, all we want is half of it. I said,
well, do we have any input on where it goes? She
said, anything is authorized across the street.
So we put one Selroth scholarship for this Navy
cadet, World War I veteran, who helped sweep the
North Sea of all the German mines. And my brother,
who was an air science major, got a three-year
scholarship. for a day of science major, and they
select him when he was a freshman. And the rest of it
was opportunity awards. So I hope that answers
your question. Because we've just got lots of kids
that don't have it. The Brattis County
Engineering Club is doing a good job putting a lot
of kids through school with scholarships that has
come in to be in the last 10 years. Last question.
What feelings do you have in your heart for Texas
A&M?
Well, I'd have to say it's first place, except my
church.
As soon as we got here, as soon as we got here, and
especially after we retired, we got involved in
all athletics, especially women's athletics.
And we were charter members and helped organize
the Lady Aggie Maroon Club, of which we are the
second lifetime member. And we'd go to basketball
games, see if people could not hit a free throw. So
we endowed for 20 years the highest proficiency
free throw shooter under certain conditions, so
many games and so many shots. as an award it would
give. And I got only three women and three men up
yonder, and they got three behind on both the
others. And they've all improved, and these
coaches have been very, very fond of it. Good. And
I've had Penny King working on two other wards that
we're going to endow the softball and baseball on
the man with the most RBI. you can't score if you've
got the bases loaded if you can't get them in. And
Penny King's been dragging her foot on that foot
for a year, but she says she's going to get it done.
So that's one of the things that we've added to it.
And the rest of that is what I've done from
militarily and